---
author: Jeffrey B. Arnold
title: Some thoughts on financial markets and learning in war?
institution: University of Washington
---

## A simple attempt to study war

Note that y is a function of expected war outcome. Proxy for actual war outcome.

$$
\Delta y_t = f(\text{(battle results)}_t, \text{(surprise battle results)}_t)
$$

Does this even make sense? 

## What I'll be discussing

1. Financial markets as a outcome variable in war
2. Modeling learning in war

## Financial Markets and the Study of War

Financial markets play two roles: 

- Market as observer, e.g. prediction market
- Market as actor, e.g. financier

## What are asset prices?

- Prices are a function of discounted **future** cashflows
- Prices are functions of beliefs about the future
- Efficient market: prices incorporate **all** present information 

## Causal interpretation of prices

- For a small change in time, difference in prices is the change in.
- To the extent it is a true casual = how well prices predict the future. 

## When and why might prices as predictions be useful

- Wars are still pretty small $n$, especially those with good data.
- If sufficiently heterogenous, counterfactual estimate of market may be better than that generated from "not so similar" cases.
- But the estimate is still an estimate ... and in this case limited information may not be great.

## Do or should we care about price movements?

- Prediction as "good" estimate of the future.
- Interest in itself

  - Markets fund war ...
  - Estimate of war expectation

## Prices as a "good" prediction

- Informational content of prices. This is not the same as the learning from conflict.
- Prices = forecast of eventual outcome of war, which may be a function of learning, or actual change in war.

## Prices as a prediction given public information

- Can models be reformulated into $E(outcome | public information)$ ?

## Can prices provide measures of uncertainty? 

- Observed volatility
- Implied volatility (options)
- Auction data

## Market as an Actor

- Market sets prices knowing that players will respond to the prices it sets
- What is the equilibrium change in interest of the market? 
- Can the market reveal information unless it has private information about the outcome of the war? Where does it get that private information? 
- Even if the market has private information, does the price provide a signal to the players? 

## Market as an Actor

- Players and market receive signal
- **Market sets interest rates**
- **Players observe interest rate**
- Players choose to borrow, mobilize
- Ultimatum game
- Market gets repaid or not. Expected repayment in war < Expected repayment in peace

## Forecasting

Bayesian convergence?

- What if the parameters are changing?
- Can we learn from no updates

## Conclusion

Was there anything interesting in what I just said? 


